---json
{
  "date": "2023-06-30T07:00:00-04:00",
  "title": "Hubble Checks in on a Galactic Neighbor",
  "canonicalUrl": "https://www.nasa.gov/image-feature/goddard/2023/hubble-checks-in-on-a-galactic-neighbor",
  "imageUrl": "https://www.nasa.gov/sites/default/files/thumbnails/image/hubble_eso174-1_potw2326a.jpg",
  "imageAlt": "A large, bright, diffuse galaxy. Center is brighter and bluer, fading to a pale, faint, gray halo. An arm on one side that curls around the top. Threads of dark dust cross the center. Many stars shine around the galaxy, on a black background.",
  "author": "Andrea Gianopoulos"
}
---

The highly irregular galaxy ESO 174-1, which resembles a lonely, hazy cloud against a backdrop of bright stars, dominates this image from the NASA/ESA [Hubble Space Telescope](/mission_pages/hubble/main/index.html). ESO 174-1 lies around 11 million light-years from Earth and consists of a bright cloud of stars and a faint, meandering tendril of dark gas and dust.

This image is part of a collection of Hubble observations designed to better understand our nearby galactic neighbors. The observations aim to resolve the brightest stars and basic properties of every known galaxy within 10 megaparsecs. A parsec is a unit used by astronomers to measure the vast distances to other galaxies – 10 megaparsecs translates to 32 million light-years – and makes astronomical distances easier to handle. For example, the nearest star to the Sun, Proxima Centauri, is about 1.3 parsecs away. In everyday units this is a staggering 25 trillion miles (40 trillion km)!

The program to capture all of our neighboring galaxies was designed to use the 2-3% of Hubble time available between observations. It’s inefficient for Hubble to make back-to-back observations of objects that are in opposite parts of the sky. Observing programs like the one that captured ESO 174-1 fill the gaps between other observations. This way the telescope can move gradually from one observation to another, while still collecting data. These fill-in observing programs make the most out of every last minute of Hubble’s observing time.

_**Text credit: European Space Agency (ESA)  
Image credit: ESA/Hubble & NASA, R. Tully**_

#### **_Media Contact:_**

**_Claire Andreoli_**  
**_NASA's_** [**_Goddard Space Flight Center_**](http://www.nasa.gov/goddard), **_Greenbelt, MD_**  
[**_claire.andreoli@nasa.gov_**](mailto:claire.andreoli@nasa.gov)

**_301-286-1940_**
