---
{
  "date": "2024-10-25T18:32:16.000Z",
  "title": "Hubble Sees a Celestial Cannonball",
  "canonicalUrl": "https://www.nasa.gov/image-article/hubble-sees-a-celestial-cannonball/",
  "imageUrl": "https://www.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/hubble-ic3225-potw2443a.jpg",
  "imageAlt": "A spiral galaxy with a disk that glows visibly from the center. It has faint dust threaded through it. A spiral arm curves around the left edge of the disk and is noticeably denser with bright blue spots that hold hot and new stars. On the opposite side, the disk stretches out into a short tail where it covers a distant background galaxy. Other distant galaxies and some nearby stars are visible are also visible in this image.",
  "author": "NASA Hubble Mission Team"
}
---

The spiral galaxy in this NASA/ESA [Hubble Space Telescope](https://science.nasa.gov/mission/hubble/) image is IC 3225. It looks remarkably as if it was launched from a cannon, speeding through space like a comet with a tail of gas streaming from its disk behind it. The scenes that galaxies appear in from Earth’s point of view are fascinating; many seem to [hang calmly](https://science.nasa.gov/missions/hubble/hubble-finds-a-lenticular-galaxy-standing-out-in-the-crowd/) in the emptiness of space as if hung from a string, while others star in much [more dynamic situations](https://science.nasa.gov/missions/hubble/hubble-spots-a-starship-shaped-galactic-pair/)!

Appearances can be deceiving with objects so far from Earth — IC 3225 itself is about 100 million light-years away — but the galaxy’s location suggests some causes for this active scene, because IC 3225 is one of over 1,300 members of the Virgo galaxy cluster. The density of galaxies in the Virgo cluster creates a rich field of hot gas between them, called ‘intracluster medium’, while the cluster’s extreme mass has its galaxies careening around its center in some very fast orbits. Ramming through the thick intracluster medium, especially close to the cluster’s center, places enormous ‘ram pressure’ on the moving galaxies that strips gas out of them as they go.

As a galaxy moves through space, the gas and dust that make up the intracluster medium create resistance to the galaxy’s movement, exerting pressure on the galaxy. This pressure, called ram pressure, can strip a galaxy of its star-forming gas and dust, reducing or even stopping the creation of new stars. Conversely, ram pressure can also cause other parts of the galaxy to compress, which can boost star formation. IC 3225 is not so close to the cluster core right now, but astronomers have deduced that it has undergone ram pressure stripping in the past. The galaxy looks compressed on one side, with noticeably more star formation on that leading edge (bottom-left), while the opposite end is stretched out of shape (upper-right). Being in such a crowded field, a close call with another galaxy may also have tugged on IC 3225 and created this shape. The sight of this distorted galaxy is a reminder of the incredible forces at work on astronomical scales, which can move and reshape entire galaxies!
